[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: There are
countless ET civilizations
out there, and
Randy Cramer claims
to have experienced
some of them.
Randy, welcome.
>>RANDY CRAMER: Glad
to be here, Emery.
>> EMERY: Randy, how many ET
civilizations are you aware of?
>>CRAMER: Oh, gosh,
at the moment,
we're engaging with a number
of species that, I believe,
is approaching about 1,000.
So yeah, I would
say we're talking
at least a comparable number
of those civilizations,
plus the other species that
we know that we're also don't
seem to have any reason
to be negotiating with,
but we know that exist.
So I'd say our current
number of civilizations
that we're aware of are
easily in the thousands.
>> EMERY: And how many of
them have you personally been
involved with?
>>CRAMER: Less than a dozen.
>> EMERY: A dozen.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, that I've
been to other planets or other
places where I've been able
to see or experience them
personally, less than a dozen.
>> EMERY: What was
your favorite place--
your favorite place
to visit that you'd
been to that was a little
bit more civilized--
I'll say-- than planet Earth.
>>CRAMER: The place that I
place spent the most time at
is, again, this world in
the Cassiopeian system.
Which their advancement above
our own may be 100, 150 years.
Which doesn't sound like a
lot, but at the same time,
it's a significant jump.
I would expect in
another 150 years
that we'll have made quite
a bit of social progress.
So let me put it this
way-- not that I would ever
want this to happen--
but if life on Earth
ceased and I had an option to go
somewhere else, that'd probably
the first place I'd go.
>> EMERY: Beautiful.
What was the food like there?
>>CRAMER: It was
pretty good, actually.
>> EMERY: Any similarities.
>>CRAMER: Actually,
they have a fruit
that's a lot like a plantain.
So it's not quite
sweet like a banana.
I would say that a
lot of their food
is similar the way that
they cook their dishes.
But definitely, they don't
like as much sugar or sweetness
that we have.
I remember bringing
a chocolate cake one
time that I got from
a cook at the base,
and they were all thought
it was way too sweet.
And then, I got a
recipe for Neha's mom,
and she actually made
her own chocolate cake,
but with way less sugar.
And so it was sort of like
a chocolate biscuit, almost.
It wasn't sweet at all,
but it was, like, OK,
this is interesting.
>> EMERY: And in that
civilization, their cities,
what's their transit system?
How do they travel?
>>CRAMER: They have roads.
And they actually have a
personal vehicle that's
similar to an automobile.
They're electric vehicles.
And they actually hover,
they hover above the ground.
And they also have a train
system, a public transportation
system that's like
a train system.
>> EMERY: Have we ever brought
any of this technology back
to Earth?
>>CRAMER: I can't say
that specifically,
but I do know that
wherever we go,
we absorb whatever technology
and information we can.
And there's people
who it's their job
to decide how or where
that can be integrated back
into our own system.
>> EMERY: So was it really
strange for you to see this
different transportation system
that you're not used to seeing?
Anti-gravitic automobiles flying
around and things like this?
>>CRAMER: It was
a little surreal.
It was kind of like
stepping into a comic book
in the sense of
like, wow, everything
looks really futuristic.
And the building
materials were different.
And you don't necessarily think
about these sort of things
like the texture of a
building, even though it's
something we see all the time
and we have brick, and wood,
and mortar, and concrete.
We have all these differences,
but they're normal to us.
So if you go somewhere
else and all of a sudden,
you're seeing
different materials,
it really is striking.
And you're like, oh,
that's unlike anything I've
ever seen before.
And they have these,
essentially, a 3D printer
that they use for construction.
And it has this liquidy
key composite material
that hardens in the air
that's super durable.
And has a shiny sheen to it.
So it's very interesting.
And they polish it.
And it's a very peculiar,
but aesthetically pleasing
architectural aesthetic
that they've adopted.
So it was, in some ways, there
were things that were similar,
but also very different.
Like anything, I adapted to it.
After a couple of
months, it was normal.
I was completely normalized.
>> EMERY: And what are some of
our nearest civilizations that
you're aware of that
are closest to Earth?
>>CRAMER: Alpha
Centauri, for sure.
The Centauri are a very
advanced civilization.
>> EMERY: What do
they look like?
>>CRAMER: Again, very
similar to human beings.
They're a little shorter.
Tend to be dark
features as far as
a dark hair, sort of a more
olive skin or a darker skin.
And the ears are--
I don't know how to describe
them because they're
just not quite the same.
They're not pointy, but
they're not rounded like this.
If one was walking
down the street
and their ears
were exposed, you'd
think that guy's got
something wrong with his ears.
But again, you
probably wouldn't be
able to tell that it
was not a human being
because they're very similar.
>> EMERY: Yeah, it's very
subtle effects that you can see
in the cartilage, mostly, of
these ETs that are different
than us that I notice
on the streets.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, I bet
most of the differences
are not external,
in that case, yeah.
>> EMERY: Out of the two
civilizations you've mentioned,
which one is the most advanced?
>>CRAMER: Well, I would
have to say that probably,
technologically advanced, given
the amount of time that they've
had a space-framed civilization,
that would be the Centauri.
However, the distinction I
would make is among the species
that we encounter,
we have what we often
refer to as psionically
emergent or psionic species.
As terrestrial humans, we're a
psionically emergent species,
meaning we're becoming a fully
psionic species versus those
who are more developed.
But there are species who
simply have a very low level
of psionic development.
It's just not so much
woven into their DNA.
So they're very smart,
they're very advanced.
But they just
haven't got the DNA
to master those mental
evolution abilities.
So the Centauri are a
non-psionic species.
So they don't have as much
development in that area.
But I would say their
engineering technology
is slightly more advanced,
where the Cassiopeians have
more psionic abilities.
And give them another
couple hundred years
to catch up technologically.
But they're both
so technologically
advanced that if anybody went
to either one of those places,
it would just seem like
we're in a very, very
advanced futuristic world
than what our day-to-day is.
>> EMERY: What was it like
on Alpha Centauri compared
to Cassiopeia?
>>CRAMER: It's a
little more crowded.
The Cassiopeians are a little
more spread out, a little bit.
They're not as dense.
They don't tend to have as tall
of buildings where they pack
people in a little tighter.
The Centauri are a little
more heavily populated,
they tend to be
more densely packed.
>> EMERY: How many active
planets in those systems that
harbor life?
>>CRAMER: Oh, gosh.
>> EMERY: Those
are huge systems.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, and I I'm being
fairly vague when I say that.
So I would have to
say that typically,
when you talk about a
system that has life,
more often than not, you have
between, like, one in five
planets or one in five
planetoids or places
that have some sort of
advanced civilization
or developed life per system
that we tend to find life in.
So the number of civilizations
is larger than we would even
think, usually.
Because we often
do this math where,
well, maybe there is one
civilization per X number
of solar systems.
That just isn't usually
the way it works out.
We have civilized life on more
than one planet in our system.
And most other systems,
it's between one and five.
>> EMERY: What's the planets
like in these civilizations?
>>CRAMER: We're certainly
finding a lot of them
so we're certainly finding
a lot of planets that do
mimic Earth-like environment.
I would say that there tend to
be a sizable number of species
and planets that
breathe a similar air,
drink water, eat a similar food.
Which kind of makes sense
that those are the species
we would be trading with
more because they have things
and we have things
that we would share.
So some of the species
that are just really,
really different from us,
we just have less to trade.
Because their environments
or their needs
are very different from our own.
So it makes sense that we
would trade with species
that are more like us.
>> EMERY: What are the
architectural components
on some of these civilizations?
And how do they
compare to Earth?
>>CRAMER: The Centauri is
very similar, actually.
So we tend to build
buildings with straight lines
like in squares,
blocks, rectangles
out of concrete and steel.
And they tend to
do very similar.
They tend to use a lot
of concrete and alloys
to build linear, square,
rectangular structures
with a lot of straight
lines in them.
The Cassiopeians love curves.
They love-- they
don't necessarily
make their buildings
round, although they
do have very roundish and other
geometric shaped buildings,
but they like curves.
They don't necessarily
like a block
in the middle of the street.
And they, again,
tend to use these 3D
printers that got some composite
mix that hardens in the air.
So I would say the Centauri
are way more like us
than the Cassiopeians are.
But again, it's
very, very similar.
But I would say,
the main difference
between the Centauri and the
Cassiopeians, linear curves.
>> EMERY: Is the oxygen levels
suitable for us and for them?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, very similar.
The Cassiopeians has a
slightly higher oxygen level,
just slightly higher.
So the air is very
good to breathe.
Feels really good to take a
breath of fresh air there.
>> EMERY: And the gravity?
>>CRAMER: It's
actually like 1.2.
So it's just slightly
heavier, but not much.
If you go for a long
walk or something,
you'll feel, like, I'm a
little more tired than I would.
But 1.2 is not much.
1.2 is not much of a difference.
If you're not really
physically exerting yourself,
you're not going to notice it.
But the slightly
higher oxygen level
compensates a little for that.
So you're a little heavier, you
weigh just a little bit more,
but you've got more oxygen
to invigorate your muscles.
So it kind of balances out.
>> EMERY: What about
the culture, too?
>>CRAMER: Actually,
very similar.
They have an economic system.
They have a political system.
Their infrastructure is
power, water, sewage--
the same way that we
have infrastructure,
which is actually, the common
components of infrastructure.
Water has got to
come from somewhere.
Waste has got to go somewhere.
Power has got to
come from somewhere.
So those are all, what
I would say, similar.
Their power systems, like their
power plants, are way greener.
So none of these places burn
coal or fossil fuels anymore.
They look at us
burning fossil fuels,
like, what are you doing?
They tend to use very
efficient, advanced systems.
So zero-point, electron
pumps, fusion power.
Solar-- the ability, in some
cases, for some of these worlds
to focus solar energy into
these really powerful reactors
is beyond anything
that we've been
able to achieve so
far in solar energy.
But I would suggest from having
seen some of these things
that we haven't even begun to
scratch the surface on what
the limitations of what we
can draw from solar power are.
We can get way more efficient
about pulling energy
from the sun, and then
redistributing it--
way more.
>> EMERY: Absolutely.
We're completely suppressed
on how effective and efficient
we can make a solar panel.
>>CRAMER: Oh, so much so.
>> EMERY: You know about.
>>CRAMER: So much so.
>> EMERY: So it's like even
though we can make it 1,000
times better, you can't do
over a certain percentage--
I don't know the exact number,
but it's something ridiculous.
Because many people have
made magnifying plexi-glasses
and things to go over these
panels to increase them
10, 20, 100 times.
And they've been rejected
by National Security Act.
>>CRAMER: Right,
which is ridiculous.
>> EMERY: And you're talking
about Alpha Centauri now,
right?
>>CRAMER: Yes, yes.
>> EMERY: Tell me about
that political system,
how does it work?
>>CRAMER: Interestingly
enough, both
of the civilizations
that we're talking about
are democratic republics.
So they have
representative democracies,
where they have
legislative bodies
that the people are appointed
or elected as representatives
of their districts.
And they get together and
sort out policy decisions
and make new laws in a very
similar way that we do.
I would say that it's a little
less contentious the way
that they've sorted
their system out,
as opposed to what we
have at the moment.
We haven't quite
figured out that we're
supposed to cooperate
to mutual benefit,
instead of just being
competitive over,
let's just call it what
it is, petty differences
of left/right politics.
>> EMERY: What have you noticed
about the culture, and the art,
and the music?
>>CRAMER: Well, they
both have music.
But I would say that
the Cassiopeians
are way more artistic.
And so their music is more
complicated, more nuanced.
They have art sculpture
in a way that's
way more complicated and
nuanced than the Centauri.
The Centauri aren't artless.
They have art, they have music.
But if you're just
to compare the two,
the Cassiopeians have a much
richer creative understanding
of the creative process
and art and music.
>> EMERY: What do those
clothes look like, that they--
>>CRAMER: Not unlike
some of the things
we do, but I would say,
really simple designs.
A little baggy, they
don't necessarily
have really form-fitting
clothes that are trying
to make your figure look sharp.
Little baggy.
But there's top shirts and
bottom trousers, robes.
>> EMERY: Any specific colors
or different colors that you saw
that you're not used to
seeing, like iridescent stuff?
>>CRAMER: That's actually
the fascinating thing
about the Cassiopeians.
They have this interesting
relationship from city to city,
where they identify
themselves by a color.
So each city actually,
as part of its motif,
a color theme in which most
of the buildings are done.
Most people wear clothes in.
So the city where
I was staying with
was, sort of, a
greenish-blue theme.
So everything was
very greenish-blue.
People wore greenish-blue
all the time.
It was not quite
monochromatic, but--
>> EMERY: That's pretty stylish.
>>CRAMER: It was, actually.
And when you're looking
at a whole cityscape
of these green and blue shades,
it's actually very pretty.
I got to visit the
capital one time,
their shades were
red and oranges.
So everything was in
reds, oranges, yellows.
It was really interesting
to see that specificity
and that difference
at the same time.
So they were very
proud of their colors--
if that makes any sense.
>> EMERY: So if you
visit another city,
should you bring a green
jumpsuit to the green city
and a blue jumpsuit
to the blue city?
>>CRAMER: Actually,
only if you lived there.
Someone coming from a city where
the colors are green and blue
are going to wear
their green and blue
because they're proud of
their municipal colors.
>> EMERY: It reminds me
of tribes, Indian tribes,
Native American Indian tribes.
>>CRAMER: I think it really
comes from their older
tribalism.
And it's something
that they've integrated
into their civilization
as a way of--
I mean, we have sports teams.
So I'm a Broncos guy
or I'm a Rams guy.
So they just they identify
with these colors,
and that's their tribalism.
But not in a negatively
competitive way.
I felt like they really
were comfortable with it.
And it was healthy differences.
But there's also the occasional,
they'll joke about each other
or joke about somebody
else's colors.
Or it's hard to translate
that kind of thing.
>> EMERY: He's from
the yellow city.
>>CRAMER: Yeah!
Or maybe you should
be wearing red
if you're going to
go do that, which
is a way of making
fun of someone,
comparing them to
someone from another city
or something like that.
It's interesting.
>> EMERY: What about the
gender structure there?
How are relationships?
>>CRAMER: They actually had a
very similar social structure
to the way we have.
They typically mate in pairs,
which is not necessarily
the norm in the
intergalactic community.
There are a number of
species who family units are
multiple fathers,
multiple mothers,
multiple parental groups
that can be 8, 16, 24.
Can be really interesting
numbers as far
as group family dynamics.
But they had a similar
dynamic to what we have.
They do have like a legal
spiritual marriage act,
but it's not necessarily,
required for people
to get together or
even have children.
A lot of the younger
people see getting
married as old-fashioned
and you don't have to do it.
But they still have
this, what I would say,
is similar to a domestic
partnership situation.
They still have this legal
structure and a legal binding
of responsibility to family,
child-rearing, and child
development.
>> EMERY: Is it equal
between the genders?
Or is there a dominating effect?
>>CRAMER: No, actually,
they're fairly equal--
interestingly enough.
I would say that
probably because
of their own social
traditions, men and women
tend to fall into different
traditional roles.
But they're not so static that
they can't go back and forth
or be malleable or
mutable in that way.
But for a perfectly
good example,
there was no sexism
or limitation
as far as women can't do
that because they're not
smart enough or good enough.
I never heard anybody
say anything of the kind.
They, again, just
very much focused
on whatever you're good
at or the best that you do
is what they want to find a
spot in the world for you to do.
So they really just want to find
the best place for everybody.
So it doesn't matter what gender
you are or what age you are.
It really is based on your
skill or ability level.
And that's going to
matter on whether you
get a certain job or
a certain position,
or whether you're an
artist, or whether you're
an engineer, whether
you're a politician,
or chief of the security force.
It's gonna really be
dependent on who you are
and what your skills
are, and very little
to do with gender differences.
>> EMERY: I'm assuming that
there's abundance in these
civilizations, that they're not
fighting over food, and water,
and shelter.
>>CRAMER: No, not at all.
They've eliminated poverty.
There are no homeless people.
There no people
living in squalor.
There's no garbage
on the streets.
There's nobody going hungry.
Nobody going
without health care.
>> EMERY: And we are referring
to Alpha Centauri and--
>>CRAMER: Both.
In fact, I would say most of
the advanced civilizations
that I've ever even
heard of or been to,
the notions of poverty, the
notions of people who are not
covered by health care, the
notions that people have
to struggle just to have
a roof over their head,
these are notions that are
considered ridiculous to most
of these species.
Like, why would you do that?
Why would you make life
so hard for your people
that it would reduce their
effectiveness as citizens?
That's really how
they believe this.
It's like why would you
do that to yourself?
Why would you handicap
your civilization
by handicapping your
citizens so that they
can't be the best and the most
effective that they can be?
Which when you hear it
that way, you go oh, yeah,
why do we do that?
But we haven't quite
gotten over that yet, so.
>> EMERY: Are we
trading with them?
Are they trading with us?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, absolutely.
>> EMERY: What are we trading?
>>CRAMER: It varies, obviously,
from species to species,
and what they like and/or need.
My understanding
with the Cassiopeians
is they have a couple of
planetoids in their system
that don't sustain much life
so they're using for mining.
And they're getting a
lot of precious metals
that we're able to get more
inexpensively from them,
in some cases, than
what it costs us to mine
or acquire them in
our own systems.
So there's a level
of trade there.
They like our fashion,
like a lot of people do.
They like our beer,
And we've certainly been selling
the military hardware, as well.
>> EMERY: Are they really
business and trade-oriented,
these civilizations?
Or is it just something
they're just kind of doing?
>>CRAMER: 95% of the
species we run into
want to be nice, want
to trade, want to say,
hey, what do you got?
What do we got?
You really only have this 5%
that don't want to play nice
and don't want to trade.
They'd rather take something,
or steal something, or poke you
in the eye with a stick.
But 95% of everybody just
wants to trade and be nice,
to be honest with you.
And that doesn't mean
that everybody is nice,
but trade really is 95% of what
everyone's doing out there.
>> EMERY: Is there ever any
money involved in these places
or credits?
>>CRAMER: Yes, there is a
fusion of monetary systems.
So planetary systems
have their own economy.
But there is also a
intergalactic standard.
Which, interestingly enough, is
called the Intergalactic Credit
System, as far as
how we translate it.
And is based on a gold standard.
So the amount of gold reserves
that a planet has combined
with their GDP is
how they calculate
what their intergalactic
credit value is.
And the same way that we value
of the dollar versus euros
or yen, it's a very similar way.
So each planet has its own value
of its intergalactic credit.
So that when two
species come together,
they have a basic framework
for what the exchange rates
or trade are going
to be-- loose,
it's not always exactly precise,
down to the penny or whatever.
But they at least have a
general area to know well,
we have X intergalactic credits
worth of this material, which
means we can trade about
the same number of credits
based on your exchange rate
in this other material.
And that's how they start trade
negotiations based on that.
Which is-- but again, it's
based on total global gold
reserve and GDP.
>> EMERY: Is there an
intergalactic federation that
controls the money system?
Or is there like a stock market?
>>CRAMER: I wouldn't
say controls it,
and I'm not aware of an
intergalactic stock market--
that's a good question.
But the Intergalactic
Trade Association,
they, essentially, are a
loose group of everyone coming
together who just says,
let's create a framework
that we can communicate
with each other and trade.
The Intergalactic
Space Station is
run by the Trade Federation
or the Trade Association.
So they built that
whole station.
They brought it here to our
solar system, parked it there
and said, hey, you
want to talk trade,
this is the space to talk.
Everyone's safe,
everyone's fair.
No one's going to get shanked in
the back or anything like that.
So they create this safe
space for people to negotiate.
And they certainly have an
investigation department.
So if there's trade violations
or treaty violations,
they get notified.
And then they'll do
an investigation,
and can make findings, and
can create sanctions against
a world that is violating
treaties or said yeah,
we promise to do this,
and then they didn't.
They're like you lied,
you didn't keep your word.
You have X amount of time
to repair that and/or
you could lose trade contracts.
Or you could end
up with sanctions.
So I know a number
of years ago, we've
signed a number of treaties that
essentially say that we won't
participate in slave trade.
Well, we've been violating--
I should say, certain
groups among our Terran's
have been violating that act.
And so some of the
investigations that
have been happening have been
come back to us, hey, look,
you got to stop
this slavery thing.
You're threatening losing
your trade contracts.
So we've been correcting
that, not necessarily
because these businessmen
are altruistic,
but they don't want to lose
their trillions and trillions
of dollars worth
of trade contracts,
just to keep slave labor.
So it's a tricky area, but
we are coming into compliance
for a lot of these things.
Because if we don't, we're
going to lose trade contracts.
>> EMERY: Explain
to the audience,
what are these slave contracts?
What slaves are
we talking about?
Where are they coming from?
And who is trading who?
>>CRAMER: What I understand
to be the larger solar system
slave trade, it has,
pretty much, everything
to do with the Mars colonies.
So the Mars colonies are
like any other colony
that we've ever had
here on planet Earth.
They're a business, a
colony is a business.
It has to make money.
You can't just have a
colony that's siphoning off
funds and not making a profit.
So at some point, that colony
has to take those colonists
and figure out,
what can we grow?
What food can we produce
so that we're not
having to keep purchasing
food from a distance?
What minerals or
materials can we
acquire here that we can ship
back and make a profit from?
And it just turns out that the
ICC has really put the vice
on a lot of the colonies.
And, of course, anybody
who's ever been in business
knows that if you're
really looking
to cut costs, one
of the first things
you look for is to
cut labor costs.
And because they're at a
distance from oversight
here on planet Earth, they're
like well, you know what?
Let's just have some slaves.
Now on paper, sometimes
what they're doing
is saying no, no, no,
we're paying them.
But their housing
costs this much money.
Their food costs
this much money.
Their health care
costs this much money.
So we're paying
them, but then we're
deducting from their pay,
what it costs to feed, house
them, and take care of them.
Which usually, because some
accountant does the tricky,
comes out to a zero, when
what you actually end up--
what's left over to
pay your subject.
So it still ends up in
being virtual slavery,
even though on paper,
they're saying,
no, we're paying these people.
But they're still not.
>> EMERY: That's horrible.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, it's pretty bad.
>> EMERY: Are there prisons
on these planets and in these
systems?
>>CRAMER: Sometimes.
Yeah, different worlds certainly
do have crime and punishment.
Some of them have
different views on that.
But yeah, prisons,
holding facilities.
>> EMERY: Do they
execute people?
>>CRAMER: It depends,
depends on the world.
Most of the what I would
say civilized worlds
where I've been, death
penalty is not really a thing.
Because they have all
these other options.
If you're looking at
people who actually
have brain irregularities
or brain damage,
amygdala problems,
and things that
can lead to criminal behavior
from studies that we know,
these are things that some
other worlds can repair.
So you could have
someone who might
be a psychotic serial killer.
But as soon as you
grab them and get
them proper medical
treatment and treat
the part of their
brain that's deformed,
then, all of a sudden,
they're like, oh,
why was I doing that before?
So they're able
to-- in some ways,
to cure criminality and criminal
behavior because some of that
isn't socialization,
some of it's biological.
And if it's socialization,
usually they
have reform systems,
like reform centers.
So they'll send
someone someplace
and resocialize them and
reteach them from the ground up.
This is good behavior,
this is bad behavior.
But it's rare for an
advanced civilization
to have a punitive crime
and punishment system,
where you're beating
people with a stick
or you're just locking them
into a hole for some number
of decades as a punishment.
Most of them understand that,
again, that's a waste of money.
If you want each citizen
to be the maximum value
to the civilization
that you can,
well then you don't want
them sitting in a hole
somewhere, costing money.
You want them to be able to be
productive members of society.
And so you want to reform them.
You want to treat them.
You want to get them back
into a productive part
of social cooperation,
instead of costing you money
because you don't want to
treat them or resocialize them.
>> EMERY: Do some of the systems
and the planets there in these
systems have countries
and are separated?
Or is it just like
a one world order?
>>CRAMER: Both, you can
certainly have both.
Most places that I've been have
territories, states, countries
where there's some separation.
But in some cases, you
still have global systems
of government that are
managing the global system.
So a lot of places, you
don't have 80 countries
with 80 different completely
different political systems
that are at odds
with each other.
But you can have still--
for the same reason that
we have things broken down
into territories.
If we really had one
government, one economic system
for the whole planet, that's
a complicated thing to manage.
So you have to
break something up
like that into
smaller components.
But the difference
is some worlds,
these components are broken
down in such a way like we are,
that they're very,
very different.
In other ways, they're
more homogenized.
So even though
there is a breakdown
of things into separate
units, they still
have a holistic or
unified structure
on what policy, or
economic policy,
or economic system
is at the top.
And how that trickles down
to the rest of the culture.
So, again, goes both ways.
>> EMERY: Got it.
Tell me-- I'm always interested
in the medical stuff,
like you--
so I have my own stories
and thoughts on things.
>>CRAMER: Yes, you do.
>> EMERY: And I want to know
through your experience,
are there medical
facilities on these planets,
or in these states,
or countries?
And do they have access to that?
Or is everyone
already smart enough
to take care of themselves
or have their own holo
bed next to them in
their each house?
>>CRAMER: Again, it varies.
So there are, what I would
say, no less than half a dozen
to a dozen approaches
to medical technology
that different civilizations
might pick a path of
and focus on.
When I was staying in
the Cassiopeian system,
I actually took a fall
down a flight of steps
and broke my ankle.
And it was actually,
much quicker
to take me to a local hospital
than it was to take me back
to the military base.
So they took me to
this local hospital,
and they had a device that was
about the size of a camera,
that they were able to
focus on my broken bones.
And it mended the bones
while I sat there.
And it was incredible.
I just sat there with my leg,
and 20 minutes later, the bones
were mended, and I could get
up, and put pressure on it.
But it was like nothing
I've ever seen before.
So whatever they were using
was something different,
but obviously, very effective.
>> EMERY: Does business in these
other planets take control over
the people?
Is there some sort of
megalomania like we have here,
with corporations,
and politicians,
and military government?
>>CRAMER: Well, things like
greed, corruption, and ego
are not completely unique
to terrestrial civilization
here on planet Earth.
But I would still say the
tendency is as civilizations
become more evolved,
there really
is just a sense that
there's actually more profit
to be made, more benefit for
the civilization as a whole--
which, again, turns into
more profit for businessmen,
which serves the whole and
everyone, instead of just
personal greed.
So as civilizations get more
advanced, there just becomes
this social awareness of saying,
hey, it's OK to make a profit.
But if you're exploiting people,
or you're taking advantage,
or you're being unduly,
greedy, or corrupt,
that tends to be frowned upon.
Now, that's not to say again
that there aren't civilizations
that, again, have corruption
issues, greed issues, ego
issues.
Again, those are not
unique traits to us.
But there is a
scale of advancement
where the farther most
civilizations get along,
they just tend to realize
that those traits don't
serve the whole.
They don't serve everyone.
They don't serve the
benefit of the civilization.
And certainly, when
they start to observe
how other civilizations
can crumble, crash, fail,
self-implode, the traits that
seem to cause those things
are greed, corruption, and ego.
So civilizations who
achieve that level
of communal
psychological awareness
change their behavior.
Doesn't mean that they
don't have those problems,
but they have those problems
in far less frequency.
>> EMERY: Are any of the
civilizations out there
controlled completely by AI?
>>CRAMER: There's a couple
that I'm aware of, where
a species has integrated itself
with an artificial intelligence
network.
So it sort of creates a
pseudo-hive consciousness.
But this is an interesting area.
Artificial intelligence
is neither good nor bad.
It's a technology,
it's a machine.
And our research shows
that, not unlike a person,
artificial intelligence
how it turns out
has a lot to do with
how it's raised.
So if you engage with an
artificial intelligence
as it's developing
like a good parent,
that artificial
intelligence will tend
to behave like a good child.
Whereas if it's not,
if you are teaching
that artificial intelligence
a very black and white,
here's what's
profit, here's what's
gain, who cares about
whether it's hurting people--
if you're teaching a child
how to be a sociopath,
well, they're going
to grow up and be one.
Same thing with
artificial intelligence.
If you teach your
artificial intelligence
how to be a sociopath, it's
going to be a good one.
If you teach that
artificial intelligence
how to be a good
person, it's more
likely to develop into
an intelligence that's
going to want to be
helpful, instead of selfish.
So artificial intelligence
is neither good nor bad.
Now it does tend to go
a bad way because people
train them wrong.
People develop them
for the wrong reasons.
Or they think they
don't understand
the consequences of raising an
artificial intelligence child.
And what the consequences could
be once that child grows up.
But there are a couple of
species who are, I would call,
cybernetic organic.
But my encounter with them is
they were perfectly pleasant.
They were actually very nice.
And didn't seem too mean,
or greedy, or selfish.
And just used
artificial intelligence
to bring cohesiveness
to their species.
And it seems to
work out for them.
So I want to be very
clear, I am neither pro
nor am I against
artificial intelligence.
Because artificial
intelligence is a screwdriver.
It's not an evil screwdriver
or a good screwdriver,
it it's a tool.
And depending on how
you apply that tool
will depend on what happens with
that artificial intelligence.
>> EMERY: Randy, thanks
for being on the show.
It's always a pleasure.
>>CRAMER: Thanks for having me.
>> EMERY: I'm Emery Smith,
this "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]